.Dd December 19, 2012
.Dt RARANGI.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rarangi.conf
.Nd The configuration file for
.Tn Rarangi Ratonga
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
file contains options used to specify
.Tn Rarangi Ratonga
server and client configuration and tuning.
.Pp
Each line contains an option field and a value field, seperated by
and equals character '='. For example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
option = value
.Ed
.Pp
Each line specifies a single option/value pair.
Option/value pairs are placed inside a section a section is started
with a title surrounded by bracket characters '[' and ']'. For example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
[production]
.Ed
.Pp
A special [DEFAULT] section may be used to specify default option/values for
sections which do not contain that option.
Whitespace can be used freely before and after fields.
A hash character '#' begins a comment that extends to the end of the line.
Lines containing only whitespace or comments are ignored.
The file format is intended to be very much like MS Windows .ini files.
.Pp
The options are:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Cm bind_tcp
The TCP address and port number for the server to bind on, and for clients to connect to.
If the address is omitted then INADDR_ANY is used. The address may be a name, an IPv4 address
or an IPv6 address. For example:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
12345
.It
foo.bar.com:12345
.It
12.34.56.78:12345
.It
[2001::23]:12345
.El
If a name or INADDR_ANY resolved in multiple IPv4 or IPv6 addresses than the server will listen
on all these addressed.
.It Cm bind_unix
The file system path of the UNIX domain stream for the server to listen on, and for clients to
connect to.
.It Cm peer
The TCP address and port number for the server to connect to. If the port number is omitted than
the same port number listed on the bind_tcp options will be used to connect to the remote host.
Peers that match the <side>.<i>.bind_tcp option are ignored.
.It Cm allow_tcp
IP addresses range who are allowed to access this server. This should be written down as either
a IPv4 CIDR or IPv6 CIDR notation, example:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
12.34.56.78/16
.It
2001:12a:2222::/48
.El
By default everything is rejected, subsequent allow and rejects are processed in-order.
.It Cm reject_tcp
Reject an IP address range, see allow_tcp.
.It Cm allow_uid
Allow a user access to the server. The uid is either a name or a user id number. By default
no-one and no-group is allowed access, subsequent allow and rejects are processed in-order.
Uid and Gid are processed together, so it is possible to allow a group and then reject a user
from this group in a subsequent reject_uid command.
.It Cm reject_uid
Reject a user access to the server. See allow_uid.
.It Cm allow_gid
Allow a group access to the server. The gid is either a name or a group id number. See
allow_uid
.It Cm reject_gid
Reject a group access to the serrver. See allow_gid
.It Cm ca_path
Path to the file with the certificate authority to authenticate TLS/TCP connections with.
.It Cm cert_path
Path to the file used as a private-key/certificate for TLS/TCP authentication.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/etc/rarangi.conf" -compact
.It Pa /etc/rarangi.conf
The
.Tn Rarangi Ratonga
configuration file.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rarangid 8
